At Luke 6:40, Jesus said:
“A student is not above his teacher,
“but everyone who is perfectly instructed
will be like his teacher.”
Well, now, what comes to your mind
when you think about this verse?
Maybe you tend to think of it in terms
of when you conduct
a Bible study with someone.
Or you might think about it
when you go to a program like Gilead
and you’re instructed there.
But in reality,
we are all teachers every day
in the classroom of Christian living.
If we have responsibilities,
if we enjoy certain privileges,
our brothers and sisters will watch us.
And those who work closely with us
will learn from us.
And they will become like us.
Take the example of the apostle Paul.
Now, we know Paul
was an outstanding teacher.
Can you imagine?
Under inspiration,
he had the privilege to write 14 books
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
Yet, that was not the only way
that the apostle Paul taught others.
His example in Christian living
was very powerful.
Now, what could people learn
from the example of Paul?
Let’s consider some examples.
Let’s go first to 1 Thessalonians chapter 2,
1 Thessalonians chapter 2,
and let’s look at verse 7:
“On the contrary,
we became gentle in your midst,
“as when a nursing mother
tenderly cares for her own children.
“So having tender affection for you,
“we were determined to impart to you,
“not only the good news of God
“but also our very selves,
because you became so beloved to us.”
Paul worked hard for the brothers.
He was kind.
He was gentle with them.
He was willing to give
not just the message of the truth but,
as he says in verse 8, “our very selves.”
And brothers, that was the truth.
Paul said he was willing to do “all things
for the sake of the good news.”
And just consider
some of the things that he did.
Let’s go to 2 Corinthians chapter 11
and just remind ourselves of some
of the things Paul went through.
Second Corinthians 11:23
—Paul says:
“Are they ministers of Christ?
“I reply like a madman,
I am more outstandingly one:
“I have done more work,
been imprisoned more often,
“suffered countless beatings,
and experienced many near-deaths.
“Five times I received
40 strokes less one from the Jews,
“three times I was beaten with rods,
“once I was stoned,
three times I experienced shipwreck,
a night and a day
I have spent in the open sea.”
And the list just goes on.
What could these ones
who worked with Paul learn from him?
In other words, how did
Paul’s powerful example
of love for God,
of endurance, of hard work,
and of true unselfishness
affect those around him?
Well, consider Timothy,
who worked so closely with Paul.
What did Paul say about him?
Let’s go to Philippians chapter 2
—Philippians 2:20.
Paul said: “For I have no one else
“of a disposition like his
“who will genuinely care for your concerns.
“For all the others
are seeking their own interests,
“not those of Jesus Christ.
“But you know the proof he gave of himself,
“that like a child with a father
he slaved with me
to advance the good news.”
Well, now, here’s a question:
Why was Timothy that way?
Why was Timothy so unselfish?
Why did he work so hard for other people?
Well, no doubt, he was “perfectly instructed”
not just by the words
but by the example of Paul.
Well, the same thing
could be true of Priscilla and Aquila.
Paul said about them
that they had risked their necks for him.
Well, where did they learn that from?
You see, we could go on
with other examples
of other close associates of Paul,
but what is the point?
Paul’s example in Christian living
instructed those around him.
They became like Paul.
Now, why is that important to you
who are graduating today
from the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead?
Well, very soon you’re going to be graduates,
and your mandate is to go forth
and strengthen and stabilize
the field and branch territory.
But now, that’s a big long term, isn’t it?
What is the field and branch territory?
It’s people.
It’s people
—spiritual men and women
who want to learn,
who want to be trained,
who want to reach the spiritual goals
that they’ve set for themselves,
and who want to grow to Christian maturity.
And because you are a Gilead graduate,
they will watch you, they will listen to you,
and they will be instructed by your example.
When I went to serve many years ago
where the need was great
on the island of Newfoundland,
we were so blessed
to have in our congregation
a graduate of the 7th class of Gilead,
Brother Fred Wiens.
Brother Wiens was an anointed brother
who was baptized
in 1928.
Now, I’ll be honest with you;
I don’t remember even one talk
that Fred Wiens gave.
But his warmth, his sense of humor,
his zeal for the ministry,
and his love for people
—the example that he set—
is truly unforgettable.
Fred talked to everyone
—and I mean everyone—
in the ministry.
One time we were out in service;
we pulled into the gas station.
As soon as we stopped the car,
Fred jumped out.
And when we were ready to leave,
we looked around to try to find Fred.
He wasn’t in the store;
he wasn’t in the bathroom.
He was nowhere to be seen.
Finally, we thought
we’d check the other cars.
Well, that’s exactly where Fred was.
Fred had knocked on the window
and gotten in a car
and started to preach
to all the people in that car.
Fred has now gone on to his reward.
But his example of warmth, kindness,
zeal, and love for people
continue to teach me
—and many others who knew him well—
right down to this day.
So here is the question
that rests before you:
What will you teach others by your example?
Be like Paul.
Love your brothers and sisters
right from your heart.
Through your example,
create an atmosphere of warmth and love
like a greenhouse
where young plants
can blossom and grow.
Your fine example
can warm up a congregation,
a circuit, a Bethel department,
perhaps even a branch office.
Never allow yourself
to be a cold executive
who creates an atmosphere like a freezer,
because those little plants
will shrivel up
and they will stop growing
in that environment.
Yes, be willing to impart
not just the many wonderful truths
of God’s Word that you learned at Gilead
but also your own heart and your own soul.
And then because those beautiful,
spiritual people you work with
will be properly instructed,
what will they be like?
They will be just like you.
And may the blessing
of our marvelous God, Jehovah,
go with you wherever you go.